---
layout: blog
date: 2018-05-21 20:00:00
title: Tier List Update - May 21
author: Top Player Council
image: /img/content/news/2018/03/tpc-weekly-tier-list-update/tier4-9.jpg
category: tier-list
sub-category: update
comments: true
description: The Top Player Council is back with a summary of the recent tier list update. Check out their decisions and reasoning to stay relevant in the current meta. This update includes changes to Archfiends, Buijins, Six Samurai, Noble Knights and Geargia.
keywords: tier list update, weekly tier list update, tier list changes, buffs, nerfs, may 21 2018
permalink: /tier-list/updates/may-21-2018/
---

{% include heading.html title=page.title author=page.author %}

#### Tier 1
- [Amazoness](/tier-list/deck-types/amazoness) (Promoted from Tier 2) 
- [Masked Heroes](/tier-list/deck-types/masked-heroes)
- [Spellbooks](/tier-list/deck-types/spellbooks/)    
- [Sylvans](/tier-list/deck-types/sylvans/)  

#### Tier 2 
- [None]() 

#### Tier 3
- [Aliens](/tier-list/deck-types/aliens/)  
  

#### High Potential
- [Buijins]()  
- [Noble Knights]()  
- [Six Samurai]()  

#### Demoted
- [Archfiends](/tier-list/deck-types/archfiends/) (Demoted from Tier 3) 
- [Geargias](/tier-list/deck-types/geargias) (Demoted from Tier 3)

<br>

---

### Top Player Council Thoughts
On the eve of a new Main BOX, the meta remains relatively unchanged from the previous week. The top four decks — Amazoness, Masked Heroes, Spellbooks, and Sylvans — stand head and shoulders above everything else. This is reflected in our notable lack of any Tier 2 decks. No other deck has the representation to match the top four decks, or even to match previous Tier 2 decks. We are in a meta absolutely dominated by four decks and that is reflected in this week’s tier list. Questions for the upcoming week include: Will {Nobleman of Crossout} knock Sylvans down a notch, despite being a dead card after the early game? Will Noble Knights/Bujins/Six Samurais be strong enough to hit the tier list? Overall, how much will this box shape the meta as we head into the Region Representative Qualifiers?    
<br>

#### Tier 1  
 
* Amazoness, Masked Heroes, Spellbooks, and Sylvans have all been placed in Tier 1. All of relatively equal power, it is rare to see a deck other than these do well in a competitive event right now. Amazoness and Spellbooks are extremely consistent and are driving the current banish-heavy meta; many decks are simply unplayable right now due to Spellbooks’ turn 1 play of {Spellbook Magician of Prophecy} + {Spellbook of Fate} (similar to how Cyber Angels wiped out a large part of the meta when they first arrived). Masked Heroes remain one of the most powerful and versatile decks, and benefit from {Destiny HERO - Celestial}’s draw power allowing them consistent access to side-decked cards. Finally, Sylvans are still an explosive and overwhelming deck in many match-ups, and are able to abuse {Grit} like no other deck.  
    
    * **TPC comments:** “All of these decks have had good results in recent tournaments and none of them currently stand out above the rest in my opinion. Maybe the new box will provide these decks with some new good/bad match ups and shake up this four deck dominance.” and  “For now I feel these four decks are on an equal level. They have high representation in every competitive tournament, and are always topping them.”  
<br>

---

#### Tier 2  

* No decks were placed into Tier 2. While this may seem peculiar, the [Top Player Council](/top-player-council/) did not feel as though any decks matched up with previous Tier 2 decks and did not deserve to simply be moved up by default.  
<br>  

---

#### Tier 3  

* Aliens have remained in Tier 3 as the only truly relevant competitive deck outside of the top four. Since Sylvans’ introduction this deck has been held down, but it can hold its own admirably in the current meta especially against Amazoness and Heroes.    

    * **TPC comment on Aliens:** “The only other deck that has really been able to compete with the big four in tournaments. However, the difference in power is noticeable and this deck should only really be considered as an option in tournaments if you don't have access to the top decks.”  
<br>

---

#### Demoted 

* Archfiends and Geargias have been removed from the tier list. Archfiends continue to see little-to-no tournament representation as players opt for more consistent decks, while Geargias are hurt terribly by the rise of {Offerings to the Doomed} and {Treacherous Trap Hole} as main-decked tech cards.  

    * **TPC comment on Demoted decks:** “{Ties of the Brethren} is just unplayable right now with the popularity of Offerings and Spellbooks with their Fate access. This means Geargias simply don't stand a chance to keep up. Archfiends just aren't consistent enough and the meta has both outpaced them and now has too much disruption to stop them from setting up their plays.”  
<br>

---

#### High Potential

* Noble Knights, Bujins, and Six Samurai have all been added to High Potential with the release of Crusaders’ Battlegrounds.  

    * **TPC comment on High Potential decks:** “All other archetypes from the set are garbage. Noble Knights have definitely caught my eye, with powerful search, special summon, and card removal effects. Bujins currently lack a reliable way of setting up {Bujin Yamato} turn 1; however, they have strong protection effects which are great against decks other than Spellbooks and Amazoness. Six Samurais gain {Grandmaster of the Six Samurai} and other Secret Six Samurai cards. I believe the new engine will revolve around {Secret Six Samurai - Doji} and Grandmaster to swarm quickly and generate advantage. However, this deck also struggles against banishing effects and may struggle if they cannot find a way to reliably draw backrow to support their monster swarm.”  
<br>

---
* This week we have the Meta Weekly on 5/22, the All Day Invitational 6.0 on 5/27, and various other community events throughout the week.  
* Expect the results of these tournaments to have a strong influence on the tier list.  
 

Find out more by joining the [Duel Links Meta Discord](/community/).  
Be sure to check out [Guides](/guides/) and [King of Games Decklists](/top-decks/).  
Learn more about the [Top Player Council](/top-player-council/) members.   

