---
layout: blog
date: 2018-03-14
title: Tier List Update - March 12, 2018
author: Top Player Council
image: /img/content/news/2018/03/tpc-weekly-tier-list-update/tierlist1.jpg
category: tier-list-update
comments: true
description: The Top Player Council is back with a summary of the recent tier list update. Check out their decissions and reasoning to stay relevant in the current meta. This update includes changes to Fishes and Magnet Warriors.
keywords: tier list update, weekly tier list update, tier list changes, buffs, nerfs, march 12 2018
permalink: /tier-list/update/march-12-2018/
---

{% include heading.html title=page.title author=page.author %}

#### TIER 1:
* [Aliens](/tier-list/aliens/) 
* [Red-Eyes-Zombies](/tier-list/red-eyes-zombies/) 

#### TIER 2:
* [Fishes](/tier-list/fishes/) 
* [Gladiator Beasts](/tier-list/gladiator-beasts/) 
* [Sea Stealth Attack](/tier-list/sea-stealth-attack/) 

#### TIER 3:
* [Cyber Angels](/tier-list/cyber-angels/) 
* [Dinos](/tier-list/dinos/) 
* [Magnet Warriors](/tier-list/magnet-warriors/) 
* [Hazy Flame](/tier-list/hazy-flame/) 
* [Snipe Hunter](/tier-list/snipe-hunter/) 

#### HIGH POTENTIAL:
* [Destiny Heroes](/tier-list/destiny-heroes/) 

#### DEMOTED:
* None

<br>

---

#### NOTES by Taaha:  

* Red-Eyes Zombies and Aliens stay in Tier 1. Clear dominance and tops in all tournaments.

* Gladiator Beasts and Sea Stealth Attack stay at tier 2. Few Gladiator Beasts tops lately and constant Sea Stealth Attack results. Sea Stealth Attack is still becoming more defined in its core as it proves itself as a top tier deck.

* Fishes has been getting many results lately including first place in All Day Invitational (7 round Swiss -> Single Elim tourney) and first place in [last week's Meta Weekly](/tournaments/meta-weekly/10/report/).

* Cyber Angels stay at Tier 3 due to significant weaknesses to the Tier 1 decks. Maybe {Hey, Trunade!} can bring Cyber Angels back to the top?

* Dinos are still a very powerful deck on paper and have favorable matchups against many of the top tier decks. Although not many representatives of this deck, they still have a solid place in the tier list.

* Magnet Warriors are demoted to Tier 3. The reasoning for this is that other than MiguelJoker, the deck has nearly no results in tournament. Statistics wise, the deck is the same as Dinos in results and thus it has been moved to Tier 3.

* Hazy Flame and Snipe Hunter were re-evaluated this week. Hazy Flame has had no representatives in any tournaments since MCS where two players got top 32. The Top Player Council has concluded that the deck is still powerful (although with clear weaknesses) but needs more representation in tournaments to fully evaluate. With more players getting access to {Swamp Mirrorer}, the deck will improve. Snipe Hunter placed 2nd in Will Cup and thus is still in Tier 3 for now. 

* Destiny Heroes are proving to be a very powerful deck. However, their core is not defined and fully optimal decks are yet to surface. Because of this, we will keep track of two different versions of Destiny Heroes. Dark City Destiny Heroes and Fusion Destiny Heroes.

---

Find out more by joining the [Duel Links Meta Discord](/discord/).  
Be sure to check out [Guides](/guides/) and [King of Games Decklists](/top-decks/).  
Learn more about the [Top Player Council](/top-player-council/) members.  
