---
layout: blog
date: 2018-04-30 18:40:00
title: Tier List Update - April 30
author: Top Player Council
image: /img/content/news/2018/03/tpc-weekly-tier-list-update/tier4-9.jpg
category: tier-list
sub-category: update
comments: true
description: The Top Player Council is back with a summary of the recent tier list update. Check out their decisions and reasoning to stay relevant in the current meta. This update includes changes to Red-Eyes Zombies, Sea Stealth Attack, Magnets, Masked HEROs and Geargias.
keywords: tier list update, weekly tier list update, tier list changes, buffs, nerfs, april 30 2018
permalink: /tier-list/updates/april-30-2018/
---

{% include heading.html title=page.title author=page.author %}

#### Tier 1

- [Masked Heroes](/tier-list/deck-types/masked-heroes)
- [Sylvans](/tier-list/deck-types/sylvans/)  

#### Tier 2
- [Archfiends](/tier-list/deck-types/archfiends/) 
- [Geargias](/tier-list/deck-types/geargias) (Demoted from Tier 1)

#### Tier 3
- [Aliens](/tier-list/deck-types/aliens/)  
- [Cyber Angels](/tier-list/deck-types/cyber-angels/) 

#### High Potential
- [Amazoness]()
- [Spellbooks]()

#### Demoted
- [Magnet Warriors](/tier-list/deck-types/magnet-warriors/) (Demoted from Tier 3)
- [Red-Eyes Zombies](/tier-list/deck-types/red-eyes-zombies/) (Demoted from Tier 3)
- [Sea Stealth Attack](/tier-list/deck-types/sea-stealth-attack/) (Demoted from Tier 3)

<br>

---

### Top Player Council Thoughts

<br>

#### Tier 1  

* At the end of our second week after the [KC Cup](/tournaments/kc-cup/april-2018/report/), the meta has continued to slowly stabilize and many older decks have finally been removed from the tier list.  

* Masked HEROs and Sylvans dominate the tournament scene, both in overall representation and number of winning decks. The biggest tournament this week, DLPT 16, was won by [SelectMaple](/top-player-council/selectmaple/) with HEROs and almost 70% of the tournament was HEROs and Sylvans. 

    * **TPC comment on Masked Heroes:** “The most used deck, and a highly efficient one. Their ability to tech cards and use the side deck without losing consistency is what makes this deck so powerful.”  

    * **TPC comment on Sylvans:** “Sylvans have dropped off slightly with tournament results but their power is still undeniable. The ease with which a player can pick up the deck and instantly do well keeps it in the same tier as HEROs for me.”  
    
<br>

---

#### Tier 2  

* Archfiends have remained in Tier 2 as they continue to indirectly shape the meta. Punishing slower decks and serving as a good check against the Tier 1 decks, Archfiends have positioned themselves solidly in “third place”, losing mainly to their own inconsistency.  
* Geargias were demoted to Tier 2 after failing to keep up with the other Tier 1 decks. The deck’s relative lack of options with any given hand also hurts it in a meta where you often need to play very differently in different match-ups.

    * **TPC comment on Archfiends:** “Still stays in Tier 2. Though this deck has a favorable match-up against the top-tier decks (Masked HEROs and Sylvans), they lack the consistency to be moved up. Not many tops in tournaments compared to the Tier 1 decks.“  
    
    * **TPC comment on Geargias:** “Geargias have begun to underperform lately (even with the fix for {Ties of the Brethren}) due to the extremely difficult Sylvan match-up. The deck as it currently stands is also quite linear.”   

<br>

---

#### Tier 3  

* Aliens and Cyber Angels have both stayed in Tier 3 as the most relevant of the previous week’s Tier 3, although neither performed notably this week.  

    * **TPC comment on Aliens:** “Aliens have a very strong core and, outside of the Sylvan and Geargia match-ups, have even-to-favorable odds across the board. This makes them a deck that can do very well in tournaments if people are unprepared.”  

    * **TPC comment on Cyber Angels:** “Cyber Angels barely stay on the tier list due to their favorable match-ups on paper against Sylvans, Geargias, and Archfiends. But despite these, their tournament results are very lackluster."  

<br>

---

#### Demoted 

* Red-Eyes Zombies, Sea Stealth Attack, and Magnet Warriors have all been removed from the tier list. The demotions of Red-Eyes Zombies and Sea Stealth Attack are of particular significance, being in Red-Eyes Zombies' case the longest a Tier 1 deck has taken to get removed from the tier list (over 10 months!) and in Sea Stealth Attack’s case perhaps the quickest a Tier 1 deck has ever become irrelevant.  

    * **TPC comment on Red-Eyes Zombies:** “A deck that has been here the longest — close to a year — but it is finally time for REZ to go. A great deck at its prime but due to the release of newer decks, Red-Eyes Zombies has been outclassed.”  

    * **TPC comment on Sea Stealth Attack:** “Sea Stealth Attack also sees very little representation and it now requires a turn 1-2 board of {Citadel Whale} plus another monster in order to have a chance at competing with the top decks.”  

    * **TPC comment on Magnet Warriors:** “Magnets see almost no representation anymore and I believe they have lost the pace to keep up with the meta."  

<br>

---

#### High Potential

* Amazoness and Spellbooks will both be added to High Potential on release. Spellbooks are coming in the new Mini BOX “[Visions of Ice](/box-reviews/visions-of-ice/)”, and Amazoness Princess will be a drop from [Elegant Mai](/news/april-2018/datamined-discoveries/).  

    * **TPC comment:** “It’s hard to say too much about these decks without proper in-game testing, but I do believe both will make the tier list. Amazons are being given one of the best search cards in the game with decent material to search in {Amazoness Onslaught}. Spellbooks also have huge amount of power in {Spellbook of Fate}, which can hurt many decks currently on the tier list.”  

<br>

---
* This week we have the Meta Weekly on 5/2, the DLP Weekly on 5/3, and Duel Links Open #7 on 5/4. Expect the results of these tournaments to have a strong influence on the tier list.  

Find out more by joining the [Duel Links Meta Discord](/discord/).  
Be sure to check out [Guides](/guides/) and [King of Games Decklists](/top-decks/).  
Learn more about the [Top Player Council](/top-player-council/) members.   