---
layout: blog
date: 2018-05-14 20:20:00
title: Tier List Update - May 14
author: Top Player Council
image: /img/content/news/2018/03/tpc-weekly-tier-list-update/tier4-9.jpg
category: tier-list
sub-category: update
comments: true
description: The Top Player Council is back with a summary of the recent tier list update. Check out their decisions and reasoning to stay relevant in the current meta. This update includes changes to Archfiends, Amazoness, Spellbooks, Ojama Stall and Cyber Angels.
keywords: tier list update, weekly tier list update, tier list changes, buffs, nerfs, may 14 2018
permalink: /tier-list/updates/may-14-2018/
---

{% include heading.html title=page.title author=page.author %}

#### Tier 1

- [Masked Heroes](/tier-list/deck-types/masked-heroes)
- [Spellbooks](/tier-list/deck-types/spellbooks/) (Promoted from Tier 2)  
- [Sylvans](/tier-list/deck-types/sylvans/)  

#### Tier 2
- [Amazoness](/tier-list/deck-types/amazoness) (Demoted from Tier 1)  

#### Tier 3
- [Aliens](/tier-list/deck-types/aliens/)  
- [Archfiends](/tier-list/deck-types/archfiends/) 
- [Geargias](/tier-list/deck-types/geargias) (Demoted from Tier 2)  

#### High Potential
- [None]()

#### Demoted
- [Ojama Stall]() (Demoted from High Potential)

<br>

---

### Top Player Council Thoughts
As is the case with every major tournament, [MCS VIII](/tournaments/meta-championship-series/8/report/) gave us a great look at the current state of the meta, showing us what changed — and what didn’t change — after the introduction of Amazoness and Spellbooks.  
<br>

#### Tier 1  
 
* Spellbooks were promoted to Tier 1 after their extremely strong performance in the MCS, taking two spots in the top 4. The 30-card builds have established themselves as top-tier, giving access to much-needed special summoning and extra Fate fuel. Spellbooks are also one of the best counters to Sylvans, as repeated Fate access is very difficult for Sylvan players to work around without blowout counters like {Last Day of Witch}.  
    
    * **TPC comment on Spellbooks:** “Spellbooks are extremely powerful; being able to consistently set up {Spellbook of Fate} every turn is very disruptive, and if Grass resolves then usual checks and counters get overwhelmed easily. The deck also has the option to play 20 cards in order to see its side cards more consistently (at the cost of some power). It was more well-represented than Amazoness in the top cut of MCS VIII and has a more consistently powerful turn 1 play, which is why I decided to put Spellbooks as Tier 1 and Amazoness as Tier 2.”  
<br>

* Masked HEROs and Sylvans have yet again remained in Tier 1. Sylvans in particular had an extremely strong presence in the top 16 of the MCS, many running exact card-for-card copies of each other’s main decks (one of which was used by Stevie to take first place overall). Masked HEROs fared worse in the top cut, but got support for their explosive plays in Offerings to the Doomed and continue to adjust their flexible core to the current meta. 

    * **TPC comment on Masked Heroes:** “HEROs are the most adaptable deck in the best-of-3 format due to their deck-thinning and draw power giving them quick access to their tech and side-decked cards. {Offerings to the Doomed} is a great boon to the deck and it was one of the most represented decks in the top cut of MCS VIII.”  

    * **TPC comments on Sylvans:** “Made a huge impact in this weekend's MCS. Being one of the easiest decks to pilot and abusing {Grit} to win games that you should have lost made this deck a popular choice amongst players.” and “Sylvans have continued to win tournaments despite a poor Spellbook match-up and are one of the best decks to counter Amazoness."  
<br>

---

#### Tier 2  

* Amazoness was demoted to Tier 2, after being one of the most-countered decks in the MCS. It is a testament to a deck’s strength when it commands so much attention in side-deck crafting, but acute weaknesses to cards like {Cosmic Cyclone} and {Warrior Elimination} certainly held the deck back overall (although Eugen was able to expertly pilot the deck to second place).  

    * **TPC comment on Amazoness:** “Tough call here. Amazoness are on the edge because they are a consistent deck with a good search engine and powerful monsters, backed by one of the best Trap cards in the game. However, the Sylvan match-up is not in their favor and they are susceptible to side-decked counters, particularly Warrior Elimination.” 
<br>  

---

#### Tier 3  

* Geargias have been demoted to Tier 3 after failing to make a splash in the MCS. The deck has not changed significantly since it was first optimized and still relies largely on {Ties of the Brethren} to not be immediately overwhelmed. Poor Sylvan and Spellbook match-ups, along with new counters in {Treacherous Trap Hole} and Offerings to the Doomed, have kept this deck’s representation low.    

    * **TPC comment on Geargias:** “Geargias have fallen off massively in usage due to the release of universal counters such as Treacherous Trap Hole and Offerings to the Doomed. They also have a terrible Spellbook match-up, in addition to an over-reliance on a 3-card combo with several core cards that have no way of being searched.”  
<br>

* Archfiends and Aliens have remained in Tier 3. Aliens had a strong rogue presence in the MCS and their flexibility was on full display as Kwrowe took them to a top 8 finish. A difficult Sylvan match-up remains a weakness, but the deck appears to have carved out a nice corner for itself in the meta. Archfiends on the other hand continue to see very little play due to inconsistency and their slow set-up. They have remained in Tier 3 in part because of their access to anti-meta cards like {Invader of Darkness} and {Chaos Hunter} but will need to start performing before they’re dropped completely off the tier list.  

    * **TPC comment on Aliens:** “I think Aliens have the potential to rise up the tier list but need more representation first. Their main advantages come from their side deck ability, consistency, and how hard other decks find it to side against them. I also believe Recombination is potentially the most powerful card in the game.”  

    * **TPC comment on Archfiends:** “Archfiends have seen a huge dip in tournament representation due to them requiring too many turns to set up in such a fast-paced meta and their overall lack of consistency. It does still have the ability to blow out any deck between its easy access to Chaos Hunter and Invader of Darkness and for that reason remains on the tier list as a decent anti-meta pick.”  
<br>

---

#### Demoted 

* Ojama Stall has been removed from High Potential due to the continued dominant presence of Sylvans.  

    * **TPC comment on Ojama Stall:** “Back in the trash where it belongs”  
<br>

---
* This week we have the Meta Weekly on 5/16 and various other community events later in the week.  
* Expect the results of these tournaments to have a strong influence on the tier list.
 

Find out more by joining the [Duel Links Meta Discord](/discord/).  
Be sure to check out [Guides](/guides/) and [King of Games Decklists](/top-decks/).  
Learn more about the [Top Player Council](/top-player-council/) members.   

