---
layout: blog
date: 2018-05-27 21:00:00 -0400
title: Meta News - Silent Swordsman OTK
author: BuiltToTilt
image: /img/content/news/2018/05/meta-news/meta-news-ss.jpg
category: news
comments: true
description: An analysis of the emergence of a new OTK deck utilizing Silent Swordsman and its effect on the Meta as we approach the 2018 Regional Representative Qualifier. 
keywords: silent swordsman, otk, meta, situation
permalink: /news/may-2018/meta-news/
---

{% include heading.html title=page.title author=page.author %}

### Téa's OTK Affinity
Téa Gardner has always been a problem character in Duel Links. She has access to {Duel, standby!}, which is one of the 3 most used consistency skills in the game. Unlike it’s cousins, {Restart} and {Balance}, Duel, standby! comes with a hefty draw back. It lets your opponent start with an extra card at the beginning of the duel. As such, it has only ever really been favoured by One Turn Kill and First Turn Kill decks that don’t really care about giving your opponent extra cards. This has garnered Téa the title of the most hated character in Duel Links (sorry, Weevil).  

From the infamous Coin Flip burn deck that led to {Restructer Revolution} being the first card to be put on the [limited list](/tier-list/forbidden-limited-list/), to Bamboo burn (which led to {Golden Bamboo Sword} being limited), Trunade Cyber Angels, Reign-Beaux Dark World and more, Duel, standby! has always been used to facilitate degenerate OTK strategies.  

### A New OTK
Enter {Silent Swordsman LV3}. He’s a level monster just like {Horus the Black Flame Dragon LV4} and {Armed Dragon LV3}, and his “evolutionary line” all have effects that revolve around negating/being unaffected by spell effects. At first glance, the Silent Swordsman line seems totally inferior to Horus in every way. However, he comes with a nifty support card by the name of {Silent Sword Slash}. This card is insanely good. First of all, it’s a quick play spell card that modifies attack, which instantly boosts it’s value as it is able to activate straight from the hand during the battle phase and the damage step. Additionally, not only is the 1500 ATK boost that it endows to Silent Swordsman permanent, but it also makes him unaffected by card effects for the rest of that turn.  

Level monsters are notoriously bad in competitive play. They are slow and bricky, and even with an insane support card like Silent Sword Slash, they just lack the consistency to hang with the biggest decks ini the Meta. However, certain interactions with {Silent Swordsman LV3} have led to an OTK method being discovered that revolves around targeting Swordsman with {Secret Pass to the Treasures} to allow it to attack directly, then boosting it’s attack to 4000 with 2 copies of Silent Sword Slash for lethal damage. Slash prevents cards like {Enemy Controller} and {Curse of Anubis} from blocking your swing, and with cards like {Dark World Dealings}, {Into the Void} and Duel, standby!, the deck is able to achieve a reasonably high level of consistency.  

#### Silent Swordsman OTK Example Build
[deck:Duel, standby!](Snoww, Unlight of Dark World;Snoww, Unlight of Dark World;Broww, Huntsman of Dark World; Silent Swordsman LV3; Dark World Dealings; Dark World Dealings;Dark World Dealings;Into the Void;Into the Void;Into the Void;Hey, Trunade!;Armor Ninjitsu Art of Alchemy;Armor Ninjitsu Art of Alchemy;Armor Ninjitsu Art of Alchemy;Silent Sword Slash;Silent Sword Slash;Ninjitsu Art Notebook;Ninjitsu Art Notebook;Ninjitsu Art Notebook;Secret Pass to the Treasures)

### Strengths and Weaknesses
Most top players usually stay away from OTK strategies like this. It’s an all or nothing play style that relies heavily on going second to be able to OTK, and if you do happen to go first you’ll be a sitting duck for an OTK from your opponent on turn 2. And even if you do go second, there is no chance that you will draw into the cards that you need to OTK. That being said, the immunity from card effects granted by Silent Sword Slash is incredibly strong, and once you do draw into your combo there is little your opponent will be able to do to stop it. They will need to activate a disruptive trap like {Treacherous Trap Hole} or {Palaeozoic Canadia} on the summon of Silent Swordsman LV3 to force out the Silent Sword Slash early and prevent Secret Pass to the Treasures being used to OTK. That is assuming you didn’t draw {Hey, Trunade!}.    

So the deck is nigh impossible to stop once it gets to the combo and it can end games in an instant. With the World Championship Qualifiers fast approaching, players are looking for decks that can do exactly that. It remains to be seen if this deck will prove consistent enough to be a problem for the WCQ, but personally I hope that it doesn’t pick up much steam. Konami seem to have a penchant for releasing degenerate strategies before big events, for example the {Cyber-Stein} lock deck that was introduced couple of KC’s ago utilizing {Ojama King}. The Meta is actually in a pretty healthy place right now. We have a bunch of solid top tier decks to pick from and there’s a lot of complex gameplay and cool interactions between the top decks. It’s a shame when a random OTK/FTK appears out of nowhere and skews the Meta in a way that detracts from skilled gameplay and reduces duels to a question of luck.  

### Should It Be Nerfed?
Having said that, I don’t feel like the Silent OTK is nerf worthy. I actually think Silent Sword Slash is an awesome support card that has a lot of potential in a more control oriented play style. It just makes me question whether Konami’s game developers thoroughly test the new cards they put into the game. With the power creep becoming more and more prominent, 4000LP just doesn’t go as far as it used to. It looks like Konami has started to recognize that as they have decided to temporarily [increase the  starting LP to 5000](/news/may-2018/in-game-updates/) for the June 2018 season of ranked play. It’s a nice change that might go some way to reigning in the easy OTK’s that have been dominating Duel Links ever since Cyber Angels and {Three-Star Demotion} Ninjas came on to the scene.  