---
layout: blog
date: 2018-05-12
title: How to Farm Arkana
author: Yami Hammy
category: farming
season: dm
name: Arkana
id: arkana
image: /img/characters/portrait-arkana.png
description: Everything you need to know about farming Arkana. His decklists, card rewards, top level farm decks with strategy information and free to play card replacements. This article will help you farm Arkana as efficiently as possible.
keywords: farming, farm decks, card rewards, free to play, arkana
permalink: /farming/all-characters/arkana/
hide: true
---

{% include heading.html title=page.title author=page.author %}

- [General Information](#general-information)
- [Card Rewards](#card-rewards)
- [Farm Decks](#farm-decks)
    - [Lvl: 40 Gate Guardian Farm](#jadehex)
    - [Lvl: 40 Ra Farm](#jadehex2)
    - [Lvl: 40 Ra Farm](#charlie)
- [Arkana Lvl: 40 Decklist](#40)

---

[slider](/img/content/farming/arkana/slider.jpg)

### General Information
- Arkana requires **red** keys to duel at the gate.
- Unlock him by completing his missions.
- Arkana provides support for the Dark Magician archetype.

### Card Rewards
[deck](Dark Magician; Dark Eradicator Warlock; Anti-Magic Arrows; Mystic Box; Diffusion Wave-Motion; The Stern Mystic; Maniacal Servant; Witch Doctor of Chaos; Thousand Knives; Chosen One) 

---

### Farm Decks

<a name="jadehex"></a>

#### Lvl: 40 Gate Guardian Farm - credit: [Jadehex](/authors/jadehex/)
[deck:Elements Unite!](Gravekeeper's Vassal; Union Attack; Union Attack; Last Day of Witch; Secret Pass to the Treasures; Paleozoic Canadia; Paleozoic Canadia; Paleozoic Canadia; Floodgate Trap Hole; Floodgate Trap Hole; Floodgate Trap Hole; Legacy of Yata-Garasu; Legacy of Yata-Garasu; Legacy of Yata-Garasu; Jar of Greed; Jar of Greed; Jar of Greed; Ready for Intercepting; Ready for Intercepting; Ready for Intercepting)   

##### Strategy
- Special Summon {Gate Guardian}.
- You should be safe if you draw one of your "flip facedown" cards ({Paleozoic Canadia}, {Floodgate Trap Hole} or {Ready for Intercepting}).
- If Arkana Summons {Dark Magician}, **immediately**  flip it facedown before he has a chance to use {Thousand Knives} (you may need your toggle set to "ON" so you can chain Ready for Intercepting or Paleozoic Canadia).
- Ideally you should aim to have 2 "flip facedown" cards at any time to play around {Double Summon}.
- Attack any facedown Dark Magician so he can't flip it faceup next turn but don't attack other Monsters as he'll just draw more cards.
- Use your draw cards to finish the Duel quicker.

*Before the last turn, ensure you have a {Paleozoic Canadia} in the Graveyard and have either {Ready for Intercepting} or {Jar of Greed}/{Legacy of Yata-Garasu} set (if you have 2 cards in your Deck).*

##### Last Turn 
1. Activate (if necessary) {Last Day of Witch} to destroy all of Arkana's Spellcaster Monsters so he can't activate {Dark Renewal}.
2. Special Summon {Paleozoic Canadia} in Attack position by either chaining to {Ready for Intercepting}, or {Jar of Greed}/{Legacy of Yata-Garasu} (activate it when you have one card in your Deck).
3. Summon {Gravekeeper's Vassal} and flip {Gate Guardian} face up if you activated Ready for Intercepting. 
4. Target Vassal with your three {Union Attack} and {Secret Pass to the Treasures}.
5. Enter Battle Phase and swing for victory!

##### Replacements
- You can replace one {Paleozoic Canadia} for {Caligo Claw Crow}.
- {Legacy of Yata-Garasu} and {Jar of Greed} can be replaced by other draw cards (filter by "Drawing" in the Card Editor) such as {Shard of Greed}, {Good Goblin Housekeeping} etc. 

##### Risks
- Unfortunately you can lose if you go second and he has {Dark Renewal} + {Legion the Fiend Jester} combo setup but it's unlikely.

---

<a name="jadehex2"></a>

#### Lvl: 40 Ra Farm - credit: [Jadehex](/authors/jadehex/)
[deck:Duel, standby!](The Winged Dragon of Ra; Golden Ladybug; Golden Ladybug; Golden Ladybug; Cosmic Compass; Creature Seizure; Arrivalrivals; Floodgate Trap Hole; Floodgate Trap Hole; Floodgate Trap Hole; Draining Shield; Draining Shield; Draining Shield; Wall of Disruption; Wall of Disruption; Wall of Disruption; Security Orb; Massivemorph; Massivemorph; Massivemorph)

##### Strategy
- Stall and gain LP while taking minimal damage from your opponent's Monsters, activate {Golden Ladybug} each turn.
- Be careful not to get caught off guard by {Dark Magic Attack}. Where possible set a mixture of cards rather than multiple non-chainable cards ({Draining Shield}/{Wall of Disruption}).
- Chain {Massivemorph} to {Draining Shield}/{Enchanted Javelin} to gain a big LP boost!

##### Last Turn 
1. Summon {Cosmic Compass} and activate its effect to Special Summon 2 Tokens in Attack position. 
2. Activate {Creature Seizure}.
3. Enter the Battle Phase, activate {Arrivalrivals} to Summon {The Winged Dragon of Ra} **then chain** {Anti-Magic Arrows}.
4. Activate the effect of The Winged Dragon of Ra when prompted and attack into the Token for victory!
	
##### Replacements
- You can replace {Arrivalrivals} with {Double Summon}.
- {Creature Seizure} can be swapped for {Stop Defense}. 
- Since he can draw faster than you with the effect of {Legion the Fiend Jester}, draw cards will prevent him decking out. Any of the Traps can be substituted for a couple draw cards (filter by "Drawing" in the Card Editor) such as {Legacy of Yata-Garasu}, {Jar of Greed}, {Shard of Greed}, {Good Goblin Housekeeping} etc. 
- You can replace the Skill with {Destiny Draw} or {Restart}.

---

<a name="charlie"></a>

#### Lvl: 40 Ra Farm - credit: Charlie Mckiz
[deck:Destiny Draw](The Winged Dragon of Ra; Kiseitai; Kiseitai; Kiseitai; Cosmic Compass; Arrivalrivals; Draining Shield; Draining Shield; Draining Shield; Jar of Greed; Damage Vaccine Ω MAX; Damage Vaccine Ω MAX; Damage Vaccine Ω MAX; Massivemorph; Massivemorph; Massivemorph; Enchanted Javelin; Enchanted Javelin; Enchanted Javelin; Jar of Greed)

##### Strategy
- Stall and gain LP while taking minimal damage from your opponent's Monsters.
- Allow {Kiseitai} to be attacked so you can start gaining LP each turn.
- Chain {Massivemorph} to {Draining Shield}/{Enchanted Javelin} to gain a big LP boost!

##### Last Turn 
1. Summon {Cosmic Compass} and activate its effect to Special Summon 2 Tokens in Attack position. 
2. Enter the Battle Phase, activate {Arrivalrivals} to Summon {The Winged Dragon of Ra} **then chain** {Anti-Magic Arrows}.
3. Activate the effect of The Winged Dragon of Ra when prompted and attack into the Token for victory!
	
##### Replacements
- You can replace {Arrivalrivals} with {Double Summon}.
- You can replace the skill with {Duel, standby!} or {Restart}.

##### Notes  
- There are several replacement card options since there are many variations of a Ra farm Deck.

---
 
<a name="40"></a>

### Arkana Lvl: 40 Decklist
[deck](Dark Magician; Dark Magician; Dark Magician; Double Coston; Double Coston; Double Coston; Mystic Tomato; Mystic Tomato; Mystic Tomato; Legion the Fiend Jester; Legion the Fiend Jester; Legion the Fiend Jester; Anti-Magic Arrows; Anti-Magic Arrows; Bound Wand; Bound Wand; Dark Magic Attack; Double Summon; Thousand Knives; Dark Renewal)

---

***If you have any questions, leave a comment below!***