---
layout: blog
date: 2018-04-21
title: Introduction to Aliens
author: Celestial
has-profile: true
category: tier-list
sub-category: deck-type
deck-type: aliens
image: /img/content/tier-list/deck-types/aliens.jpg
comments: false
description: A quick introduction to the Aliens deck type. View sample deck, core cards, tech cards, quick tips, guides, videos and other information.
keywords: aliens, deck type, information, sample deck, core cards, tech cards, quick tips, guides, videos
permalink: /tier-list/deck-types/aliens/
hide: false
---

{% assign deck-type-name = page.deck-type | getDeckTypeName %}
{% include guides/heading.html deck-type=deck-type-name author=page.author hidden=page.hide %}
{% unless page.hide %}

#### Updated April 21, 2018 
##### Core Cards, Tech Cards, Sample Decklist, and Tips Updated

### Overview
Aliens is a deck that uses A-Counters: These counters are used to activate card effects from monsters, traps and spells. Some Aliens are able to use A-counters to reduce enemy monsters attack and defense, and will have the text "If a monster with an A-Counter battles an Alien monster, it loses 300 ATK and DEF for each A-Counter during damage calculation only." This effect stacks for each Alien monster on the field. Aliens have been labeled as the best free-to-play and new player friendly deck in Duel Links with only one core Super Rare card. Alien decks are extremely versitile and have room for situational tech cards, making them a strong deck for experienced players as well.

---

### Sample Deck

[deck:Balance](Alien Overlord;Alien Overlord;Alien Telepath;Alien Telepath;Alien Warrior;Alien Warrior;Alien Warrior;Alien Kid;Alien Kid;"A" Cell Recombination Device;"A" Cell Recombination Device;"A" Cell Recombination Device;Powerful Rebirth;Powerful Rebirth;Forbidden Chalice;Forbidden Chalice;Enemy Controller;Enemy Controller;Super Rush Headlong;Super Rush Headlong)

---  

### Core Cards

[deck](Alien Overlord;Alien Overlord;Alien Telepath;Alien Telepath;Alien Warrior;Alien Warrior;Alien Warrior;Alien Kid;Alien Kid;"A" Cell Recombination Device;"A" Cell Recombination Device;"A" Cell Recombination Device;Powerful Rebirth;Powerful Rebirth)

These are the cards you shouldn't play the deck without.    
* {Alien Warrior} - Because its the best and most consistent 4 star beater in the deck. It is very versatile with its A-Counters and its 1800 attack gets over most monsters.

* {Alien Overlord} - Boss monster of the deck, 2200 attack with the ability to special summon easily by removing 2 A-counters from anywhere on the field. It can also replace the A-counters it removed with its second ability to place one A-counter to each monster your opponent controls.

* {Alien Kid} - This card was a late bloomer, it wasn't very good at release. As the game gets faster it will get even better. It places one A-counter on every special summoned monster your opponent summons.

* {Alien Telepath} - Simple spell and trap removal by removing one A-Counter from your opponent. Its value depends on the meta but all Alien decks run at least one.

* {"A" Cell Recombination Device} - Best card in deck , it gives you A-counters which allow your combos to run smoothly plus the search effect is great. Combos very well with Powerful Rebirth since it sends an Alien to the grave.

* {Powerful Rebirth} - Synergizes very well with the deck. "A" Cell Recombination Device plays ditching an Alien monster to the graveyard combined with Powerful Rebirth give you the ability to swarm the field with Aliens to get maximum A-counter stat reduction.
     
---

### Tech Cards

[deck](Super Rush Headlong;Enemy Controller;Forbidden Chalice;Divine Wrath;Wall of Disruption;Mysterious Triangle;Brainwashing Beam;Fire Formation - Gyokkou;Cosmic Cyclone;Hey, Trunade!;Lava Golem;Snipe Hunter;Fenghuang)

All of these cards are great additions to the deck but optional.

---

### Extra Info

- Aliens A-counter -300 effect stacks, so: 2 aliens (with the text effect) = -600 with 1 counter.

- {Alien Shocktrooper} benefits from the A-counter stat reduction as long as you have another alien on the field, but does not grant that benefit itself as it lacks the required text effect.

- Play {\"A\" Cell Recombination Device} on the end phase of your opponent’s turn, this way you can get the effect of adding an alien monster to your hand on your following turn.

- In some situations, using {\"A\" Cell Recombination Device} to lower an attacking monster’s ATK is a viable play. You lose valuable A-counters when their monster is destroyed, but destroying a monster in their battle phase can generate advantage.

- Alien Kids effect to place an A-counter cannot be negated by {Divine Wrath}.  

- Econ taking an enemys Alien Overlord will destroy theirs and keep yours in tact if you have one on the field.  

- Suiciding your Alien Warrior can be a good play if you have another Alien on the field or if you have a Powerful Rebirth set so you can attack over their monster if needed.  

{% include guides/guides.html deckType=page.deck-type %}

{% include guides/videos.html videos='CS8g_jTvzK4' %}

{% endunless %}
{% include decktype_decks.html deckType=page.deck-type %}
{% include top-decks-season-archive.html %}