---
layout: blog
date: 2018-04-22 18:00:00 +0100
title: Introduction to Sylvans
author: Whoiskp
has-profile: false
category: tier-list
sub-category: deck-type
deck-type: sylvans
image: /img/content/tier-list/deck-types/sylvans.jpg
comments: true
description: A quick introduction to the Sylvans deck type. View sample decks, core cards, tech cards, quick tips, guides, videos and other information!
keywords: sylvans, deck type, information, sample deck, core cards, tech cards, quick tips, guides, videos
permalink: /tier-list/deck-types/sylvans/
hide: false
---

{% assign deck-type-name = page.deck-type | getDeckTypeName %}
{% include guides/heading.html deck-type=deck-type-name author=page.author hidden=page.hide %}
{% unless page.hide %}

### Overview

The Sylvans archetype emerged from the [Rampage of the Forest](/box-reviews/rampage-of-the-forest/) Mini Box and is currently the cheapest to build in comparison to the other two Tier 1 decks: [Geargias](/tier-list/deck-types/geargias/) and [Masked Heroes](/tier-list/deck-types/masked-heroes/). Each Sylvan Monster has it's own unique Field effect that allows it to excavate card(s) from the Deck and also Graveyard effects that range from destroying Monsters, backrow, boosting ATK/DEF and many more! The ideal play is to excavate multiple {Sylvan Komushroomo} and/or {Sylvan Marshalleaf} to destroy your opponents entire field and swing for a easy OTK! 
  
A great combo is to get {World Carrotweight Champion} into the Graveyard, then use its effect to discard a Monster (preferably {Rose Lover}) to Special Summon itself, then using the effect of {Rose Lover} to Special Summon one of your boss monsters: either {Sylvan Hermitree} or {Sylvan Guardioak}. This usually allows you to excavate other Sylvans from the Deck, setting up game the current or following turn. 

### Sample Decks

Since the core of the deck amount to around 16-17 cards most builds are generally the same with the exception of the tech cards, here are a couple sample decks:

[deck:Grit](Sylvan Komushroomo; Sylvan Komushroomo; Sylvan Komushroomo; Rose Lover; Rose Lover; Rose Lover; Sylvan Hermitree; Sylvan Hermitree; World Carrotweight Champion; World Carrotweight Champion; Sylvan Marshalleaf; Sylvan Marshalleaf; Sylvan Marshalleaf; Sylvan Guardioak; Sylvan Guardioak; Sylvan Guardioak; Enemy Controller; Enemy Controller; Enemy Controller; Fragrance Storm)

[deck:Restart](Sylvan Komushroomo; Sylvan Komushroomo; Sylvan Komushroomo; Rose Lover; Rose Lover; Rose Lover; Sylvan Hermitree; Sylvan Hermitree; World Carrotweight Champion; World Carrotweight Champion; Sylvan Marshalleaf; Sylvan Marshalleaf; Sylvan Marshalleaf; Sylvan Guardioak; Sylvan Guardioak; Sylvan Guardioak; Enemy Controller; Enemy Controller; Ultimate Providence; Ultimate Providence)

### Core Cards

[deck](Sylvan Komushroomo; Sylvan Komushroomo; Sylvan Komushroomo; Rose Lover; Rose Lover; Rose Lover; Sylvan Hermitree; World Carrotweight Champion; Sylvan Marshalleaf; Sylvan Marshalleaf; Sylvan Marshalleaf; Sylvan Guardioak; Sylvan Guardioak; Sylvan Guardioak; Enemy Controller; Enemy Controller; Divine Wrath; Divine Wrath; Ultimate Providence; Ultimate Providence)

3 x {Sylvan Komushroomo}   
3 x {Rose Lover}  
1-3 x {Sylvan Hermitree}  
1-2 x {World Carrotweight Champion}  
3 x {Sylvan Marshalleaf}  
3 x {Sylvan Guardioak}  
2-3 x {Enemy Controller}  
2-3 x {Divine Wrath}  
2-3 x {Ultimate Providence}  

*Note that **either** Divine Wrath or Ultimate Providence needs to be in the core, it's unnecessary to have 2-3 copies of both of them.* 

### Tech Cards

[deck](Dark World Lightning; Dark Core; Disappear; Anti-Magic Prism; Magic Deflector; Floodgate Trap Hole; Sylvan Lotuswain; Tribute to the Doomed; Sphere Kuriboh; Solemn Scolding)

### Skills

- {Restart}: The most used skill when it comes to Sylvans. Allowing you to refresh your initial hand in the event you can’t make a play. Ideally, you want to open with at least one {World Carrotweight Champion}, {Rose Lover}, or {Sylvan Komushroomo} with a backrow protection card. 
- {Grit}: Since Sylvans have so much OTK potential, Grit usage is slowly rising in popularity on both the Ranked Duels ladder and in tournaments as it has the potential to save you from losing to an OTK and allows you to make a comeback and perhaps OTK your opponent the following turn. 

### Things To Remember

- When excavating {Sylvan Hermitree}, if you don’t have a way to excavate again that turn the first card you choose will be the one you draw on your next turn. 
- When excavating more than one {Sylvan Guardioak}, the effect of the first one will be the next card you draw and the effect of the second Guardioak will be the card after. Bear that in mind while trying to make plays after excavating two or more Guardioak.
  
Check out the guides below which go into much more depth and are updated frequently to reflect how to play Sylvans against the current meta!

{% include guides/guides.html deckType=page.deck-type %}

{% include guides/videos.html videos='uX--W9BsngQ;tetwMsl3hAM;ZHjgD2mxQUY' %}

{% endunless %}
{% include decktype_decks.html deckType=page.deck-type %}
{% include top-decks-season-archive.html %}