---
layout: blog
date: 2018-04-13
title: Introduction to Geargias
author: Brenduke
has-profile: True
category: tier-list
sub-category: deck-type
deck-type: geargias
image: /img/content/tier-list/deck-types/geargias.jpg
comments: true
description: A quick introduction to the Geargias deck type. View sample decks, core cards, tech cards, quick tips, guides, videos and other information.
keywords: geargias, geargia, deck type, information, sample deck, core cards, tech cards, quick tips, guides, videos
permalink: /tier-list/deck-types/geargias/
hide: false
---

{% assign deck-type-name = page.deck-type | getDeckTypeName %}
{% include guides/heading.html deck-type=deck-type-name author=page.author hidden=page.hide %}
{% unless page.hide %}

### Overview  

Geargias are a recent addition to the game which was added in the [Valiant Souls](/box-reviews/valiant-souls/) Main Box. The deck revolves around Monsters which can flip themselves face-down and have very powerful non-targeting destruction effects when flipped face-up. The box brought a complete Monster core which can either be played as a control deck reminiscent to that of [Gladiator Beasts](/tier-list/deck-types/gladiator-beasts/) or can be played with {Ties of the Brethren} to become one of the most powerful and consistent OTK decks Duel Links has seen to date.  

Since all the Monsters are Machine type, the deck has access to a wide range of tech options. The most relevant being {Pulse Mines} which is arguably the strongest defensive backrow card in the game. The deck's strategy revolves around flipping your Monsters face-down and then flipping them face-up. {Geargiattacker} destroys Spell and Trap cards while {Geargianchor} destroys Monsters. Both of these cards do not target and instead you select cards to destroy at resolution. This means the opponent is forced to chain their backrow to our Monster effects before we select targets. This also means we can destroy untargettable cards like {Citadel Whale} and {Hazy Flame Sphynx}.  

Because the effect counts the number of other Geargia Monsters at resolution you will need to have ways to build a field and protect your Monsters. Thankfully, we have numerous options to do that between {Ties of the Brethren}, {Powerful Rebirth} and the non-core Geargia Monsters to a lesser extent. Like [Gladiator Beasts](/tier-list/deck-types/gladiator-beasts/), the decks engine is its Monster core which is ran at between 6 and 9 depending what version you use. Therefore, the deck has a lot of versatility and tech spaces to adapt to future meta changes. Because of this and the fact that the Monster core only requires two copies of the Super Rare {Geargiattacker} they are a safe investment going forward.  

The version of the deck which uses {Ties of the Brethren} and cards such as {Desert Sunlight} is particularly powerful because there is very little counter play available when the deck goes first. For example, the Geargia player can flip their Monsters face down to avoid {System Down} and using {Lava Golem} without any form of protection gives them a 3000 ATK Monster while they still have a 1700 ATK Monster and a Normal Summon. Additionally, {Ghostrick Scare} and Desert Sunlight lets the deck play around {Gravity Axe - Grarl} and {Floodgate Trap Hole}.  

Finally, decks such as [Masked Heroes](/tier-list/deck-types/masked-heroes/) are beginning to use {Fire Formation - Gyokkou} but this deck can afford to use {Pulse Mines} in the draw phase since you will be using it anyway. This makes the deck very impressive going first and a significant threat on the ladder and in tournament play which you will need to side for, though the best side deck card has yet to be determined.  

---

### Sample Deck  

ShinySopheon did an amazing job getting second place in [MCS VII](/tournaments/meta-championship-series/7/report/) with a {Restart} version of the deck which was built to abuse {Ties of the Brethren} to its fullest. Using the {Restart} build let ShinySopheon have a statistically higher chance of opening with Ties of the Bretheren in the opening hand and when that doesn’t happen getting {Powerful Rebirth} becomes quite high.  

The deck also runs a higher Trap count and lower Monster count which is generally not advisable for {Balance} builds. By maxing out on Ties and running two copies of Rebirth, ShinySopheon had a good chance to open with either after {Restart}. ShinySopheon also sided for the [Sylvans](/tier-list/deck-types/sylvans/) matchup and mirror match; the only two matchups this deck can struggle with when it opens moderately well.  

[deck:Restart](Geargiattacker;Geargiattacker;Geargianchor;Geargianchor;Geargianchor;Geargiarsenal;Geargiarsenal;Ties of the Brethren;Ties of the Brethren;Ties of the Brethren;Enemy Controller;Enemy Controller;Powerful Rebirth;Powerful Rebirth;Pulse Mines;Pulse Mines;Pulse Mines;Desert Sunlight;Desert Sunlight;Curse of Anubis)

<br>

The second variant of the deck leaves out {Ties of the Brethren} and goes a pure control route. The deck is significantly less powerful but it is also more consistent and has more spots for tech cards. The fact that [SirDillweed](/top-player-council/sirdillweed/) made top 4 and [Brenduke](/authors/brenduke/) and Luke Tyler both went 6-1 in swiss before getting knocked out in top 32 proves that the non-Ties version of the Deck is still powerful and a credible threat in tournament play.  

Below is [SirDillweed's](/top-player-council/sirdillweed/) top four Deck which he also used to win the [Meta Weekly #14](/tournaments/meta-weekly/14/report/). The triple {Forbidden Chalice} was for the [Sylvans](/tier-list/deck-types/sylvans/) matchup, which is the only matchup the non-Ties variant struggles with. The non-Ties Geargia can have the upper hand in the mirror match because it has more space to add cards to disrupt the {Ties of the Brethren} play such as Forbidden Chalice, {Enemy Controller} and {Paleozoic Canadia}.  

[deck:Balance](Geargiattacker;Geargiattacker;Geargiattacker;Geargianchor;Geargianchor;Geargianchor;Geargiarsenal;Geargiarsenal;Geargiarsenal;Forbidden Chalice;Forbidden Chalice;Forbidden Chalice;Enemy Controller;Enemy Controller;Enemy Controller;Powerful Rebirth;Powerful Rebirth;Powerful Rebirth;Pulse Mines;Pulse Mines;Pulse Mines)

<br>

---

### Core Cards  

#### Core Cards Ties of the Brethren Build  
[deck](Geargiattacker;Geargiattacker;Geargianchor;Geargianchor;Geargianchor;Geargiarsenal;Geargiarsenal;Ties of the Brethren;Ties of the Brethren;Ties of the Brethren;Powerful Rebirth;Powerful Rebirth;Pulse Mines;Pulse Mines;Pulse Mines)

<br>

#### Core Cards Non-Ties Build  
[deck](Geargiattacker;Geargiattacker;Geargianchor;Geargianchor;Geargianchor;Geargiarsenal;Geargiarsenal;Geargiarsenal;Powerful Rebirth;Powerful Rebirth;Powerful Rebirth;Pulse Mines;Pulse Mines;Pulse Mines)

<br>    

---

### Tech Cards  
The Ties build has four tech spots and the non-Ties build has six tech spots. Below these techs will be discussed in detail.  

[deck](Geargiaccelerator;Scrap Recycler;Forbidden Chalice;Enemy controller;Super Rush Headlong;Gravity Blaster;Curse of Anubis;Desert Sunlight;Ghostrick Scare;Windstorm of Etaqua;Needle Ceiling;Memory Loss;Paleozoic Canadia;Floodgate Trap Hole;Wall of Disruption;The Regulation of Tribe;Divine Wrath)

<br>

---

### Extra Info  

* Since {Geargiattacker} and {Geargianchor} count the number of other Geargia Monsters at resolution you can tribute the flipped up Monster to take an opponent’s Geargia and it will count the stolen Geargia as one other one. This lets you destroy three cards with Anchor and Attacker. The same interaction exists for {Spiritual Earth Art – Kurogane}; you can chain Kurogane to Geargianchor’s effect to tribute Anchor for a different Geargia in the Graveyard to get the extra destruction. Most of the time you would be using this to Summon {Geargiarsenal} which can search another Geargianchor. For this reason, Kurogane is suitable as a budget option over Powerful Rebirth.  

* Due to the wording of {Geargiattacker}, it can miss the timing to use its effect in situations where {Desert Sunlight} or {Ghostick Scare} is not chain-link one.  

* {Ghostrick Scare} is strictly better than {Desert Sunlight} for two reasons. Firstly, you can choose the order in which effects activates (the second Monster you choose to flip up will activate first) and you can also choose to only flip up one Monster which can let you play around {System Down} and {Needle Ceiling} better.  

* Monster placement after {Ties of the Brethren} is important if using {Desert Sunlight} style cards. Against any Deck that uses cards like {Ultimate Providence} you want to place {Geargiattacker} on the right so that it becomes chain link 2. Therefore, Providence and {Divine Wrath} will negate Attacker and not {Geargianchor}. Elsewhere, in the [Archfiend](/tier-list/deck-types/archfiends/) matchup you want to place Anchor on the right so that it become chain link two. Doing this means that you will destroy {Archfiend Empress} while the chain is ongoing. This makes Empress miss the timing so its effect to Special Summon a Monster from Graveyard is not activated. 

* You cannot flip up a Geargia the turn it is Summoned but you can on the turn it is not Summoned. Therefore, it is good to use {Powerful Rebirth} in the end phase so that you can "flip-flop" your Monsters on your turn.  

* Against Decks which use {Fire Formation - Gyokkou} it may be wise to activate {Pulse Mines} in the Draw Phase. Watch out for this card in [Masked Heroes](/tier-list/deck-types/masked-heroes/) and [Dinos](/tier-list/deck-types/dinos/)!  

* In the mirror match; after your opponent’s {Ties of the Brethren} has resolved you can destroy their board with a {Needle Ceiling} before they flip any Monsters face down by setting toggle to "ON". You can also use this to counter the Deck if using a different Deck.  

* Because the number of other Geargia Monsters is counted at resolution, removing those other Monsters or flipping them face down can act as pseudo effect negation.  

* Be cautious when activating the effect of {Geargianchor} against {Sea Stealth Attack} when they only have one Monster. Because the effect does not target you could be forced to destroy one of your own Monsters if their Monster is not on the field anymore.  

* {Geargiattacker} and {Geargianchor} do not target. Therefore, you can destroy [Hazy Flame](/tier-list/deck-types/hazy-flame/) Monsters and {Citadel Whale} without any worries.  

* It is almost always better to activate the effect of {Geargiattacker} before {Geargianchor} to force the use of, or destroy effect negation backrow cards and things like {Red-Eyes Spirit}/{Powerful Rebirth}.  

* Against decks which often Main Deck effect negation Counter Traps such as Sylvan I like to Summon the second Geargia before flipping face down or up to check prompts. If there is no prompt it is less likely to be a card such as {Divine Wrath} unless the opponent toggles to "OFF". Elsewhere, you may wish to set your Monster face down before Normal Summon to scout out backrow.  

* In a tournament format, people may side cards like {System Down} and {Needle Ceiling}. It is important in game 2 and 3 to "flip-flop" around these cards to ensure the impact the have on the match is kept to a minimum.  

* Good cards against this deck include: {Gravity Axe - Grarl}, {Needle Ceiling}, {System Down}, {Lava Golem}, {Fire Formation - Gyokkou}, {Forbidden Chalice}, {Forbidden Dress}, {Floodgate Trap Hole}, {Enemy Controller} and {Paleozoic Canadia}.


{% include guides/guides.html deckType=page.deck-type %}

{% include guides/videos.html videos='v=CErADZh8c14;v=k0Gt45LDwSI' %}

{% endunless %}
{% include decktype_decks.html deckType=page.deck-type %}
{% include top-decks-season-archive.html %}